Spread 4.1.0  http://www.spread.org

Spread Concepts LLC and Johns Hopkins University's Distributed Systems 
and Networks Lab are happy to announce the release of a 
new stable version, 4.1.0, of the Spread toolkit. 

The Spread 4.1 release is mainly a bugfix release with a few minor
features. This release includes some requested new features such as:

1) Make location of unix domain socket configurable at compile time.
2) Add version numbers to the Spread library. 
3) Add runtime configuration option in spread.conf for the maximum number
of messages Spread should buffer for each client before disconnecting them.
4) Add high-precision timestamps to log file events. To activate enable
EventPreciseTimeStamp flag in spread.conf.

It also includes the usual collection of bug fixes. Details of the new 
capabilities can be found in the Readme.txt file included in the distribution.

This release does not have any visible API changes, so not applications
should require code changes to support this release. Applications
linked with the 4.0 libspread libraries should continue to work. However,
we recommend relinking against the new library as it fixes some known bugs.

We believe this release is stable and provides a solid platform for
Spread applications.

Spread is a toolkit that provides a high performance messaging service
that is resilient to faults across external or internal
networks. Spread functions as a unified message bus for distributed
applications, and provides highly tuned application-level multicast
and group communication support. Spread services range from reliable
message passing to fully ordered messages with delivery guarantees,
even in case of computer failures and network partitions.

Please be aware, that under the Spread Open Source License, the toolkit may 
be freely used only under some conditions. For example, the license includes 
the requirement that all advertising materials (including web pages) 
mentioning software that uses Spread display a specific acknowledgment. 
Please review the license agreement for more details.
http://www.spread.org/license/

Other commercial licenses or other licensing arrangements are available. 
Please contact info@spreadconcepts.com. 

